Rework Introduction and Overview of Project Syn (#51)
projectsyn/documentation: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/features.adoc

> = Project Syn Features

Reviewer: For me this is a very abstract reading and I can imaging readers to easily drop out not getting why all this is awesome. To be hones, I have no idea how to make it better.

Reviewer: Some parts are a bit of a bumpy read. E.g _… the catalog GitOps Git repository …_, _… Tenant and Cluster Kubernetes-CRD configuration objects …_. I understand the intention of being precise. Maybe this can be improved somehow.

Author: Yeah, I can see what you mean. But I can't come up with something "better". Therefore I close this comment...

Project Syn isn't just one tool, it consists of several tools which combined together help to work with Kubernetes.

== Multi-Cluster and Multi-Tenant Management

Keeping track of many Kubernetes clusters and to which tenant one belongs is the key job of *Lieutenant*. With Lieutenant an inventory service is provided, which not only keeps track of clusters and tenants, but also of other facts about clusters (cloud, location, ...). The information stored in Lieutenant is used by several other Project Syn tools, like Commodore.

== Full GitOps Operations

> In order for https://www.gitops.tech/[GitOps] to unfold its full potential, some prerequisites must be met, like having a component to actually implement GitOps and an amount of Git repositories must exist, including access control. Project Syn makes use of https://argoproj.github.io/argo-cd/[Argo CD] as main GitOps controller, running on each Kubernetes cluster. The Project Syn tool *Lieutenant Operator* manages Git repositories (creating, updating, deleting) for automating the whole process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order for https://www.gitops.tech/[GitOps] to unfold its full potential, some prerequisites must be met, like having a component to actually implement GitOps and an amount of Git repositories must exist, including access control. Project Syn makes use of https://argoproj.github.io/argo-cd/[Argo CD] as main GitOps controller, running on each Kubernetes cluster. The Project Syn tool *Lieutenant Operator* manages Git repositories (creating, updating, deleting) based on Tenant and Cluster Kubernetes-CRD configuration objects.
```

> In order for https://www.gitops.tech/[GitOps] to unfold its full potential, some prerequisites must be met, like having a component to actually implement GitOps and an amount of Git repositories must exist, including access control. Project Syn makes use of https://argoproj.github.io/argo-cd/[Argo CD] as main GitOps controller, running on each Kubernetes cluster. The Project Syn tool *Lieutenant Operator* manages Git repositories (creating, updating, deleting) based on Tenant and Cluster Kubernetes-CRD configuration objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for https://www.gitops.tech/[GitOps] to unfold its full potential, some prerequisites must be met, like having a component to actually implement GitOps and an amount of Git repositories must exist, including access control. Project Syn makes use of https://argoproj.github.io/argo-cd/[Argo CD] as the GitOps controller, running on each Kubernetes cluster. The Project Syn tool *Lieutenant Operator* manages Git repositories (creating, updating, deleting) based on Tenant and Cluster Kubernetes-CRD configuration objects.
```

> Steward

Reviewer: Lost in the woods …

== Configuration Management

Generating customized Kubernetes deployment artefacts for deploying (system) applications to many Kubernetes clusters is achieved by the Project Syn tool *Commodore*. It uses https://kapitan.dev/[Kapitan] under the hood to allow for having a hierarchical configuration structure. In combination with Lieutenant, Commodore is able to compile a customized catalog per Project Syn enabled Kubernetes cluster and can push it to the catalog GitOps Git repository, which is then taken care of by Argo CD. As Lieutenant exactly knows everything about the Git repositories, Commodore can get all the needed information from there.

== Reusable Components

Commodore uses so-called *Commodore Components* (think of a module) to compose the services available to a cluster. Via the hierarchical configuration system of Commodore and Kapitan, Components can be included and configured globally, per tenant, per cluster and more fine-grained, depending on your imagination.

> Project Syn already provides a https://github.com/topics/commodore-component[huge set of Commodore Components], but it's very easy to write your own Component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Project Syn already provides a https://github.com/topics/commodore-component[growing set of Commodore Components] and it's very easy to write your own Component.
```

== Secret Management

Storing secrets (be it plaintext or encrypted) in Git has never been a good idea. And as Project Syn stores everything in Git for leveraging GitOps, secrets must be treated differently. For that, the possibilities of https://kapitan.dev/secrets/[Kapitan] are used, only a reference to a secret is actually stored in Git. The real secret is stored securily in https://www.vaultproject.io/[HashiCorp Vault] and only retrieved while the Kubernetes secret is applied directly on the target Kubernetes cluster. This way the secret never leaves the cluster (except being stored in a Vault instance).

Lieutenant is capable of preparing everything what's needed in Vault so that no manual interaction with Vault is needed. It is even able to generate secrets per cluster and store it in Vault.

== Service Provisioning

> Applications running on a Kubernetes cluster most of the time need some additional services like databases and caches to do the intended job. For having this completely automated, Project Syn integrates with https://crossplane.io/[Crossplane], which is able to provision services in the cloud or in the Kubernetes cluster itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applications running on a Kubernetes cluster most of the time need some additional services like databases and caches to do their intended job. For having this completely automated, Project Syn integrates with https://crossplane.io/[Crossplane], which is able to provision services in the cloud or hosted on the Kubernetes cluster itself.
```
